CONSTITUTION OF [INSERT NAME] OWNERS ASSOCIATION 

 

Introduction 

 

1.1 

There shall be an association of owners of flats in the tenement (“the tenement”) 
known as [insert address]………………………. The flats in the tenement are: [insert flat 
numbers] ….. . The name of the Association is [insert name]…………………….. (“the 
Association”). 

 

1.2 

The Association is established on …………………………...following a meeting at which a 
majority of owners of flats in the tenement agreed to its establishment. 

 

1.3 

All persons who are owners of flats in the tenement are entitled to membership of 
the Association; and where two or more persons own a flat, both (or all) of them are 
entitled to membership. 

 

1.4 

The members of the Association are all those entitled to membership who have 
given written notice to the secretary of the Association that they wish to be 
members. 

 

1.5 

A member shall be entitled at any time to resign by giving written notice. 

 

1.6 

Membership of the Association terminates immediately on the member ceasing to be 
an owner of a flat in the Tenement 

 

1.7 

Termination of membership, for whatever reason, does not have any effect on 
acquired rights and liabilities of that member, or on decisions made prior to that 
termination or resignation. 

 

1.8 

All the members agree to all the rules in this Constitution and agree to be bound by 
them. Any owner or owners can enforce any decision made by the Association. 

 

1.9 

Membership of the Association is free. However, a charge may be levied by the 
Association to cover running costs. 

 

1.10 

The address of the Association is that of the secretary of the Association. 

 

1.11 

All members must be given a copy of this constitution by the secretary when they 
first become members. A copy must be provided thereafter on demand to any 
member who wants one. 

 



 

Function and Power of the Association 

2.1 

The function of the Association is:- 

 

1.1 to manage and maintain the tenement for the benefit of the members 




 

1.2 to seek to improve the tenement and maintain and improve its environment 
including the close (common stair), any bins storage arrangements, any 
common spaces such as stores, toilets, etc, backgreens, drying facilities, 
boundary walls/ fencing and gates 




 

1.3 to bring together owners in the tenement on a regular basis 




 

1.4 to promote a sense of community 




 

2.2 

Where the Association, or any member, wants repairs, maintenance or associated 
operations to be done to any part of the scheme property of the Tenement, those 




works must be done in accordance with the Scheme for the Management and 
Maintenance of the Tenement (“the Scheme”): see below. 

 

2.3 

The Association shall, at each annual General Meeting, elect a convenor, secretary 
and treasurer. At each AGM, those previously in office are required to stand down. 
They are however eligible for immediate re-election, whether to the office 
previously held, or another. 

 

2.4 

The convenor chairs all meetings of the Association and decides when and where 
they should be held. The convenor may delegate any of those tasks. The secretary 
gives notice of all meetings to the members including the date, time, place and 
agenda and makes the necessary practical arrangements. The secretary takes and 
keeps minutes of all meetings. All members are entitled to copies of the minutes on 
request. The secretary also sends and receives correspondence on behalf of the 
Association. The treasurer administers the funds of the Association, its financial 
records and bank accounts. The treasurer collects money due from members, puts it 
all into the Association’s bank account and pays Association’s bills from the 
Association’s funds. The treasurer also prepares annual accounts for approval at the 
AGM. The Association, at a meeting, may decide to alter any of these duties and/or 
decide that someone else (such as a property agent or factor) does them. 

 



 

General Meetings 

 

3.1 

The first annual general meeting is to be called by the convenor of the Association. 
It is to be held not later than one year after the date on which the Association was 
established. 

 

3.2 

Thereafter, the convenor of the Association is to call an AGM every year, no more 
than 15 months after the date of the preceding meeting. 

 

3.3 

The convenor may call a general meeting of the Association at any time. He must 
call a general meeting if at least 25% of the members require him to do so. 

 

3.4 

The business to be conducted at the AGM is as follows: 

• Reports by the office bearers (and factor if any); 


• election (or re-election) of convenor, secretary and treasurer; and 


• presentation of accounts of the Association for the previous year; and (if 
desired) 


• any other business, (other than a ‘scheme decision’). 




 

3.5 

Those elected or appointed hold office until the next AGM unless removed from 
office by a general meeting. 

 

3.6 

The business which may be conducted at a general meeting is as follows: 

• to seek reports from one or more of the office bearers, or the factor; 


• to receive the resignation of any office bearer and elect a replacement; and/or 


• to remove any office bearer and to elect a replacement; and/or 


• any other business, (other than a ‘scheme decision’). 




 

3.7 

Not later than seven days before the date fixed for the general meeting, the 
convenor is to call the meeting by sending to each member a notice giving the date 
and time and place of the meeting and the agenda for the meeting. If the meeting is 
an AGM (except in the case of the first AGM), the draft accounts of the Association 
for the previous year must accompany the notice. However, any inadvertent failure 
to comply with any part of this clause does not affect the validity of the 
proceedings at the general meeting. 

 




3.8 

If the convenor fails to call a general meeting despite being obliged to do so, or if 
there is no convenor, any member may call a general meeting, in the same way as 
the convenor. 

 

3.9 

The quorum for all meetings is that 50% of the flats must be represented by a 
member. 

 

3.10 

A general meeting may not begin unless there is a quorum. If there is still no 
quorum 20 minutes after the advertised starting time, the meeting is to be 
postponed to another date and time as specified by the convenor (or if he is not 
present, by a majority of those members present). That date must be between 14 
and 28 days later. The convenor must give notification to all members of the 
rearranged date, time and place of the meeting. 

 

3.11 

A general meeting may be postponed once only. If there is still no quorum at the 
postponed meeting, those present are deemed to constitute a quorum. 

 

3.12 

Once a general meeting of the Association has commenced, it may continue even if 
the number of members present ceases to be a quorum. 

 

3.13 

For the purpose of voting on any proposal at any general meeting, one vote is 
allocated per flat; any right to vote is exercisable by the member or by someone 
nominated in writing to act for that member. 

 

3.14 

If a flat is owned by two or more members, those members shall have only one vote 
between them and may be exercised by any of them (or by someone nominated in 
writing to Act for that member). If those members disagree as to how the vote 
should be cast, no vote shall be counted in respect of any of those members. 

 

3.15 

A decision is made by the Association at a general meeting by a majority of all the 
votes cast. In the event of a tie, the status quo shall be maintained. 

 



 

Funds of the Association 

 

4.1 

Any Association funds are to be held in the name of the Association and deposited in 
an interest bearing bank or building society account by the treasurer. All 
withdrawals from the account shall require the signatures of at least two office 
bearers. 

 

4.2 

The members shall each contribute a sum annually, or at such intervals as the 
Association in general meeting shall decide, to cover the expenses incurred by the 
Association in its administration. Those sums shall be accounted for in the annual 
accounts. 

 

4.3 

Funds to be used in connection with scheme decisions are to be dealt with in 
accordance with the Scheme and are to be accounted for separately. 

 



 

Variation of the Constitution of the Association 

 

5.1 

The Association may, in general meeting, resolve to amend any part of the 
Constitution of the Association. 

 

5.2 

Any such resolution shall only have effect if carried by at least two: thirds of those 
present at the meeting comprising at least 50% of the total membership. 

 

5.3 

Within 14 days of any such amendment to the Constitution, the secretary shall send 
a copy of the minutes of the general meeting to each member. 




 



 

Dissolution of the Association 

 

6.1 

The Association may be dissolved at any time at a General Meeting if a majority of 
members resolve to do so at that meeting. 

 

6.2 

The treasurer must, as soon as possible after the decision to dissolve the 
Association, use any Association funds to pay debts incurred by the Association on 
behalf of its members; and thereafter shall distribute any remaining funds among 
those who were members as at the date of dissolution. If there are any outstanding 
debts of the organisation, the members are each liable for an equal share. 

 

6.3 

The treasurer must prepare final accounts not more than six months after the date 
of dissolution of the Association showing how the funds of the Association were 
distributed and send a copy of the accounts to every member. 

 



 

Giving of Notices, etc 

 

7.1 

 

Any notice or document of any kind to be given under this constitution must be 
given in writing. It can be sent by post, delivered or emailed. It can be sent to the 
member at any address specified by him/her, or to his/her representative. If the 
address of any member is not known, the notice etc. can be delivered to the 
member’s flat in the tenement marked for his/her attention. 

 



 


 

SCHEME FOR MANAGEMENT & MAINTENANCE OF THE TENEMENT 

 

RULE 1 – Scope and Interpretation 
1.1 

Scope of scheme This scheme provides for the management and maintenance of the 
scheme property of the tenement. 

 

1.2 

Meaning of "scheme property" For the purposes of this scheme, "scheme property" 
means, all or any of the following: 

 

 (a) any part of the tenement that is the common property of two or more of the 
owners 

 

 (b) any part of the tenement (not being common property of the type mentioned in 
paragraph (a) above) the maintenance of which, or the cost of maintaining, is the 
responsibility of two or more of the owners 

 

 (c) with the exceptions mentioned in rule 1.3, the following parts of the tenement 
building (so far as not scheme property by virtue of paragraph (a) or 

 

 (b) above: 

(i) the ground on which it is built, 

(ii) its foundations, 

(iii) its external walls, 

(iv) its roof (including any rafter or other structure supporting the roof), 

(v) if it is separated from another building by a gable wall, the part of the 
gable wall that is part of the tenement building, and 

(vi) any wall (not being one falling within the preceding sub paragraphs), 
beam or column that is load bearing. 


1.3 

Parts not included in rule 1.2(c) The following parts of a tenement building are the 
exceptions referred to in rule 1.2(c) 

 

(a) any extension which forms part of only one flat 

 

 (b) any: 

(i) door 

(ii) window 

(iii) skylight 

(iv) vent 

(v) other opening, which serves only one flat 

 

(c) any chimney stack or chimney flue. 

 

1.4 

Meaning of "scheme decision" : A decision is a "scheme decision" for the purposes of 
this scheme if it is made in accordance with: 

 

(a) rule 2, or 

 

(b) where that rule does not apply, the tenement burden or burdens providing the 
procedure for the making of decisions by the owners. 

 

1.5 

Other definitions : In this scheme: 

 

"maintenance" includes repairs and replacement, cleaning, painting and other 
routine works, gardening, the day to day running of a tenement and the 
reinstatement of a part (but not most) of the tenement building, but does not 
include demolition, alteration or improvement unless reasonably incidental to the 
maintenance 




 

"manager" means, in relation to a tenement, a person appointed (whether or not by 
virtue of rule 3.1(c)(i)) to manage the tenement 

 

"scheme costs" has the meaning given by rule 4.1. 

 

“Association” means the owners Association referred to at paragraph 1.1 of the 
Constitution above. 

 

“tenement” means the tenement referred to at paragraph 1.1 of the Constitution 
above. 

 

1.6 

Rights of co-owners If a flat is owned by two or more persons, then one of them 
may do anything that the owner is by virtue of this scheme entitled to do. 

 



 

RULE 2 : Procedure for Making Scheme Decisions 

 

2.1 

Making scheme decisions Any decision to be made by the owners, whether or not 
members of the Association, shall be made in accordance with the following 
provisions of this rule. 


2.2 

Allocation and exercise of votes Except as mentioned in rule 2.3, for the purpose 
of voting on any proposed scheme decision one vote is allocated as respects each 
flat, and any right to vote is exercisable by the owner of that flat or by someone 
nominated by the owner to vote as respects the flat. 


2.3 

Qualification on allocation of votes No vote is allocated as respects a flat if: 

 

(a) the scheme decision relates to the maintenance of scheme property, and 




 

(b) the owner of that flat is not liable for maintenance of, or the cost of 
maintaining, the property concerned. 

 

2.4 

Exercise of vote where two or more persons own flat If a flat is owned by two or 
more persons the vote allocated as respects that flat may be exercised in relation to 
any proposal by either (or any) of them, but if those persons disagree as to how the 
vote should be cast then the vote is not to be counted unless: 

 

(a) where one of those persons owns more than a half share of the flat, the vote is 
exercised by that person, or 

 

(b) in any other case, the vote is the agreed vote of those who together own more 
than a half share of the flat. 

 

2.5 

Decision by majority A scheme decision is made by majority vote of all the votes 
allocated. 

 

2.6 

Notice of meeting If any owner wishes to call a meeting of the owners with a view 
to making a scheme decision at that meeting that owner must give the other owners 
at least 48 hours' notice of the date and time of the meeting, its purpose and the 
place where it is to be held. 

 

2.7 

Consultation of owners if scheme decision not made at meeting If an owner wishes 
to propose that a scheme decision be made but does not wish to call a meeting for 
the purpose that owner must instead: 

 

(a) unless it is impracticable to do so (whether because of absence of any owner or 
for other good reason) consult on the proposal each of the other owners of flats as 




respects which votes are allocated, and 

 

(b) count the votes cast by them. 

 

2.8 

Consultation where two or more persons own flat For the purposes of rule 2.7, the 
requirement to consult each owner is satisfied as respects any flat which is owned 
by more than one person if one of those persons is consulted. 

 

2.9 

Notification of scheme decisions A scheme decision must, as soon as practicable, 
be notified: 

 

(a) if it was made at a meeting, to all the owners who were not present when the 
decision was made, by such person as may be nominated for the purpose by the 
persons who made the decision, or 

 

(b) in any other case, to each of the other owners, by the owner who proposed that 
the decision be made. 

 

2.10 

Case where decision may be annulled by notice Any owner (or owners) who did 
not vote in favour of a scheme decision to carry out, or authorise, maintenance to 
scheme property and who would be liable for not less than 75 per cent. of the 
scheme costs arising from that decision may, within the time mentioned in rule 
2.11, annul that decision by giving notice that the decision is annulled to each of 
the other owners. 

 

2.11 

Time limits for rule 2.10 The time within which a notice under rule 2.10 must be 
given is: 

 

 (a) if the scheme decision was made at a meeting attended by the owner (or any of 
the owners), not later than 21 days after the date of that meeting, or 

 

(b) in any other case, not later than 21 days after the date on which notification of 
the making of the decision was given to the owner or owners (that date being, 
where notification was given to owners on different dates, the date on which it was 
given to the last of them). 

 



 

Rule 3 : Matters on which Scheme Decisions May Be Made 

 

3.1 

Basic scheme decisions The owners may make a scheme decision on any of the 
following matters: 

 

(a) to carry out maintenance to scheme property, 

 

(b) to arrange for an inspection of scheme property to determine whether or to 
what extent it is necessary to carry out maintenance to the property, 

 

(c) except where a power conferred by a manager burden (within the meaning of 
the Title Conditions (Scotland) Act 2003 (asp 9)) is exercisable in relation to the 
tenement: 

(i) to appoint on such terms as they may determine a person (who may be an 
owner or a firm) to manage the tenement, 

(ii) to dismiss any manager, 

 

(d) to delegate to a manager power to exercise such of their powers as they may 
specify, including, without prejudice to that generality, any power to decide to 
carry out maintenance and to instruct it, 

 

(e) to arrange for the tenement a common policy of insurance complying with 




section 18 of this Act and against such other risks (if any) as the owners may 
determine and to determine on an equitable basis the liability of each owner to 
contribute to the premium, 

 

(f) to install a system enabling entry to the tenement to be controlled from each 
flat, 

 

(g) to determine that an owner is not required to pay a share (or some part of a 
share) of such scheme costs as may be specified by them, 

 

(h) to authorise any maintenance of scheme property already carried out, 

 

(i) to modify or revoke any scheme decision. 

 

3.2 

Scheme decisions relating to maintenance If the owners make a scheme decision 
to carry out maintenance to scheme property or if a manager decides, by virtue of a 
scheme decision, that maintenance needs to be carried out to scheme property, the 
owners may make a scheme decision on any of the following matters: 

 

(a) to appoint on such terms as they may determine a person (who may be an owner 
or a firm) to manage the carrying out of the maintenance, 

 

(b) to instruct or arrange for the carrying out of the maintenance, 

 

(c) subject to rule 3.3, to require each owner to deposit: 

(i) by such date as they may decide (being a date not less than 28 days after 
the requirement is made of that owner), and 

(ii) with such person as they may nominate for the purpose, 

a sum of money (being a sum not exceeding that owner's apportioned share of a 
reasonable estimate of the cost of the maintenance), 

 

(d) to take such other steps as are necessary to ensure that the maintenance is 
carried out to a satisfactory standard and completed in good time. 


3.3 

Scheme decisions under rule 3.2(c) requiring deposits exceeding certain 
amounts 
A requirement, in pursuance of a scheme decision under rule 3.2(c), that each 
owner deposit a sum of money: 

 

(a) exceeding £100, or 

 

(b) of £100 or less where the aggregate of that sum taken together with any other 
sum or sums required (otherwise than by a previous notice under this rule) in the 
preceding 12 months to be deposited by each owner by virtue any scheme decision 
under rule 3.2(c) exceeds £200, 

 

shall be made by written notice to each owner and shall require the sum to be 
deposited into such account (the "maintenance account") as the owners may 
nominate for the purpose. 


3.4 

Provision supplementary to rule 3.3 Where a requirement is, or is to be, made in 
accordance with rule 3.3 

 

(a) the owners may make a scheme decision authorising a manager or at least two 
other persons (whether or not owners) to operate the maintenance account on 
behalf of the owners, 

 

(b) there must be contained in or attached to the notice to be given under rule 3.3 a 
note comprising a summary of the nature and extent of the maintenance to be 




carried out together with the following information: 

 

(i) the estimated cost of carrying out that maintenance, 

(ii) why the estimate is considered a reasonable estimate, 

(iii) how the sum required from the owner in question and the 
apportionment among the owners have been arrived at, 

(iv) what the apportioned shares of the other owners are, 

(v) the date on which the decision to carry out the maintenance was made 
and the names of those by whom it was made, 

(vi) a timetable for the carrying out of the maintenance, including the dates 
by which it is proposed the maintenance will be commenced and completed, 

(vii) the location and number of the maintenance account, and 

(viii) the names and addresses of the persons who will be authorised to 
operate that account on behalf of the owners, 

 

(c) the maintenance account to be nominated under rule 3.3 must be a bank or 
building society account which is interest bearing, and the authority of at least two 
persons or of a manager on whom has been conferred the right to give authority, 
must be required for any payment from it, 

 

(d) if a modification or revocation under rule 3.1(i) affects the information 
contained in the notice or the note referred to in paragraph (b) above, the 
information must be sent again, modified accordingly, to the owners, 

 

(e) an owner is entitled to inspect, at any reasonable time, any tender received in 
connection with the maintenance to be carried out, 

 

(f) the notice to be given under rule 3.3 may specify a date as a refund date for the 
purposes of paragraph (g)(i) below, 

 

(g) if: 

(i) the maintenance is not commenced by: 

(A) where the notice under rule 3.3 specifies a refund date, that 
date, or 

(B) where that notice does not specify such a date, the twenty 
eighth day after the proposed date for its commencement as 
specified in the notice by virtue of paragraph (b)(vi) above, and 

(ii) a depositor demands, by written notice, from the persons authorised 
under paragraph (a) above repayment (with accrued interest) of such sum as 
has been deposited by that person in compliance with the scheme decision 
under rule 3.2(c), 

 

the depositor is entitled to be repaid accordingly, except that no requirement to 
make repayment in compliance with a notice under sub paragraph (ii) arises if the 
persons so authorised do not receive that notice before the maintenance is 
commenced, 

 

(h) such sums as are held in the maintenance account by virtue of rule 3.3 are held 
in trust for all the depositors, for the purpose of being used by the persons 
authorised to make payments from the account as payment for the maintenance, 

 

(i) any sums held in the maintenance account after all sums payable in respect of 
the maintenance carried out have been paid shall be shared among the depositors: 

(i) by repaying each depositor, with any accrued interest and after 
deduction of that person's apportioned share of the actual cost of the 
maintenance, the sum which the person deposited, or 

(ii) in such other way as the depositors agree in writing. 

 

 




3.5 

Scheme decisions under rule 3.1(g): votes of persons standing to benefit not to 
be counted A vote in favour of a scheme decision under rule 3.1(g) is not to be 
counted if: 

 

(a) the owner exercising the vote, or 

 

(b) where the vote is exercised by a person nominated by an owner: 

(i) that person, or 

(ii) the owner who nominated that person, 

 

is the owner or an owner who, by virtue of the decision, would not be required to 
pay as mentioned in that rule. 

 



 

Rule 4 : Scheme Costs: Liability and Apportionment 

 

4.1 

Meaning of "scheme costs" Except in so far as rule 5 applies, this rule provides for 
the apportionment of liability among the owners for any of the following costs: 

 

(a) any costs arising from any maintenance or inspection of scheme property where 
the maintenance or inspection is in pursuance of, or authorised by, a scheme 
decision, 

 

(b) any remuneration payable to a person appointed to manage the carrying out of 
such maintenance as is mentioned in paragraph (a), 

 

(c) running costs relating to any scheme property (other than costs incurred solely 
for the benefit of one flat), 

 

(d) any costs recoverable by a local authority in respect of work relating to any 
scheme property carried out by them by virtue of any enactment, 

 

(e) any remuneration payable to any manager, 

 

(f) the cost of any common insurance to cover the tenement, 

 

(g) the cost of installing a system enabling entry to the tenement to be controlled 
from each flat, 

 

(h) any costs relating to the calculation of the floor area of any flat, where such 
calculation is necessary for the purpose of determining the share of any other costs 
for which each owner is liable, 

 

(i) any other costs relating to the management of scheme property, 

 

and a reference in this scheme to "scheme costs" is a reference to any of the costs 
mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (i). 

 

4.2 

Maintenance and running costs Except as provided in rule 4.3, if any scheme costs 
mentioned in rule 4.1(a) to (d) relate to: 

 

(a) the scheme property mentioned in rule 1.2(a), then those costs are shared 
among the owners in the proportions in which the owners share ownership of that 
property, 

 

(b) the scheme property mentioned in rule 1.2(b) or (c), then: 




 

(i) in any case where the floor area of the largest (or larger) flat is more 
than one and a half times that of the smallest (or smaller) flat, each owner 




is liable to contribute towards those costs in the proportion which the floor 
area of that owner's flat bears to the total floor area of all (or both) the 
flats, 

 

(ii) in any other case, those costs are shared equally among the flats, 

 

and each owner is liable accordingly. 


4.3 

Scheme costs relating to roof over the close Where: 

 

(a) any scheme costs mentioned in rule 4.1(a) to (d) relate to the roof over the 
close, and 

 

(b) that roof is common property by virtue of section 3(1)(a) of the Tenements 
(Scotland) Act 2004, 

 

then, despite the fact that the roof is scheme property mentioned in rule 1.2(a), 
paragraph (b) of rule 4.2 shall apply for the purpose of apportioning liability for 
those costs. 

 

4.4 

Insurance premium Any scheme costs mentioned in rule 4.1(f) are shared among 
the flats: 

 

(a) where the costs relate to common insurance arranged by virtue of rule 3.1(e), in 
such proportions as may be determined by the owners by virtue of that rule, or 

 

(b) where the costs relate to common insurance arranged by virtue of a tenement 
burden, equally, 

 

and each owner is liable accordingly. 

 

4.5 

Other scheme costs Any scheme costs mentioned in rule 4.1(e), (g), (h) or (i) are 
shared equally among the flats, and each member is liable accordingly. 


 



 

 

Rule 5 : Redistribution of Share of Costs 

 

5.1 

Where an owner is liable for a share of any scheme costs but: 

 

(a) a scheme decision has been made determining that the share (or a portion of it) 
should not be paid by that owner, or 

 

(b) the share cannot be recovered for some other reason such as that: 

(i) the estate of that owner has been sequestrated, or 

(ii) that owner cannot, by reasonable inquiry, be identified or found, 

 

then that share must be paid by the other owners who are liable for a share of the 
same costs (the share being divided equally among the flats of those other owners), 
but where paragraph (b) applies that owner is liable to each of those other owners 
for the amount paid by each of them. 

 



 

Rule 6 : Procedural Irregularities 

 

6.1 

Validity of scheme decisions Any procedural irregularity in the making of a scheme 
decision does not affect the validity of the decision. 





6.2 

Liability for scheme costs where procedural irregularity If any owner is directly 
affected by a procedural irregularity in the making of a scheme decision and that 
owner: 

 

(a) was not aware that any scheme costs relating to that decision were being 
incurred, or 

 

(b) on becoming aware as mentioned in paragraph (a), immediately objected to the 
incurring of those costs, 

 

that owner is not liable for any such costs (whether incurred before or after the 
date of objection), and, for the purposes of determining the share of those scheme 
costs due by each of the other owners, that owner is left out of account. 




 

Rule 7 : Emergency Work 

 

7.1 

Power to instruct or carry out Any owner may instruct or carry out emergency 
work. 


7.2 

Liability for cost The owners are liable for the cost of any emergency work 
instructed or carried out as if the cost of that work were scheme costs mentioned in 
rule 4.1(a). 


7.3 

Meaning of "emergency work" For the purposes of this rule, "emergency work" 
means work which, before a scheme decision can be obtained, requires to be 
carried out to scheme property: 

 

(a) to prevent damage to any part of the tenement, or 

 

(b) in the interests of health or safety. 

 



 

Rule 8 : Enforcement 

 

8.1 

Scheme binding on owners This scheme binds the owners. 

 

8.2 

Scheme decision to be binding A scheme decision is binding on the owners and their 
successors as owners. 

 

8.3 

Enforceability of scheme decisions Any obligation imposed by this scheme or arising 
from a scheme decision may be enforced by any owner. 

 

8.4 

Enforcement by third party Any person authorised in writing for the purpose by the 
owner or owners concerned may: 

 

(a) enforce an obligation such as is mentioned in rule 8.3 on behalf of one or more 
owners, and 

 

(b) in doing so, may bring any claim or action in that person's own name. 

 



 

Rule 9 : Giving of Notice 


9.1 

Giving of notice Any notice which requires to be given to an owner under or in 
connection with this scheme may be given in writing by sending the notice to: 

 

(a) the owner, or 




 

(b) the owner's agent. 

 

9.2 

Methods of "sending" for the purposes of rule 9.1 The reference in rule 9.1 to 
sending a notice is to its being: 

(a) posted, 

 

(b) delivered, or 

 

(c) transmitted by electronic means. 

 

9.3 

Giving of notice to owner where owner's name is not known Where an owner 
cannot by reasonable inquiry be identified or found, a notice shall be taken for the 
purposes of rule 9.1(a) to be sent to the owner if it is posted or delivered to the 
owner's flat addressed to "The Owner" or using some other similar expression such as 
"The Proprietor". 

 

9.4 

Day on which notice is to be taken to be given For the purposes of this scheme: 

 

(a) a notice posted shall be taken to be given on the day of posting, and 

 

(b) a notice transmitted by electronic means shall be taken to be given on the day 
of transmission. 

 



 


