DEVELOPING A CONSTITUTION FOR AN OWNERS ASSOCIATION 

 

EXAMPLE 2 

 

CONSTITUTION BASED ON THE FULL TENEMENT MANAGEMENT SCHEME 

 

 

The purpose of these alternative example constitutions is to enable owners to 
choose the example which best meets their requirements. The chosen example is 
still likely to require adaptation to make it suit your needs. The reader is referred 
to the general comments made in the introduction about the use of such 
constitutions, the interrelationship between constitutions and the title deeds, the 
effect of legislation, and the importance of professional advice. 

 

1. This is the second of three example constitutions for Owners 
Associations. It is relatively straightforward example which combines 
the full Tenement Management Scheme (TMS) 1 with an adaptation of 
the Development Management Scheme2. 




 

2. This example separates the running of the association (the 
constitution) from decision-making in relation to repairs & 
maintenance (scheme for management & maintenance of tenement). 




 

3. It is suitable to be used where the owners wish a comprehensive, 
detailed constitution which enables them to organise repairs, make 
decisions and pay costs but there is no wish to seek registration of new 
title conditions 




 

4. In relation to the title deeds, this example can be used in the following 
circumstances:- 




 

• where there are no - or incomplete - title conditions relating to 
common repairs & maintenance, making decisions or having an 
owners association 




 

• owners wish to apply in full the exact terms of the TMS (or amend 
it to specify other methods of dividing costs between owners – see 
para 9 below) 




 

5. Since this example assumes that no registration will take place, the 
terms of the 2003 and 2004 Acts3 are the default and this example 
cannot depart from those provisions as regards decision-making, 
property ownership and procedures. That means that there are 
constraints on simplification of the statutory provisions. 




1 The Tenement Management Scheme (TMS) is part of the Tenements (Scotland) Act 2004 

 

2 The Development Management Scheme (DMS) is due to be enacted by legislation at the 
Westminster parliament in early 2006. 

 

3 The 2003 & 2004 Acts are the Title Conditions (Scotland) Act 2003 & the Tenements 
(Scotland) Act 2004 


 

4 ‘Scheme decisions’ are decisions relating to the repair and maintenance of the tenement. 

 

6. Ideally for this constitution to work most effectively, all owners should 
be members. It should not be used if only a minority of owners are 
members. 




 

7. If a majority of – but not all - owners are members, the provisions of 
this example constitution are still effective. However, no decision of 
the Association can have any effect on non members - in particular, 
the Association would have no right to make scheme decisions4. 




 

8. This means that, although the members of the Association could still 
make decisions under this Constitution, before they could be binding 
on all owners, there would have to be a further process involving the 
non member owners (using either the procedure in the title deeds (if 
any) or the TMS) before the decision can be made effective. This is 
because non-member owners have rights under the 2003 and 2004 Acts 
(or the title deeds) which will be unaffected by decisions of the 
Association. 




 

9. Dividing up repair costs There are different approaches to dividing up 
repair costs. These are covered by rules 4.1 to 4.5 of the scheme for 
management & maintenance:- 




 

(a) If the title deeds indicate how costs should be divided up, rules 4.1 
to 4.5 should be amended to reflect the title deeds. 

 

(b) If all owners agree with the approach adopted in rules 4.1 to 4.5, 
then no further amendments need be made 

 

(c) If all owners do not agree with the approach adopted in rules 4.1 to 
4.5, alternative approaches can be adopted, if all members are 
agreeable. Alternative approaches for dividing repair costs between 
owners include:- 

 

• equal shares in all instances 

 


• according to the rateable value of each flat compared to the total 
rateable of all the flats 

 


• according to the floor area of each flat compared to the total 
floor area of all the flats 




 

10 Changes to constitution : Once the Association has been formed, 
changes to the constitution require the approval of at least 75% of the 
owners. 

 


11 Quorum : Associations may set the quorum for meetings at a level 
that they think is appropriate. The suggested quorum is 50% of 
owners, although this may be rather high for a large building. The 
danger of setting the quorum much lower than this is that a small 
group of people could dominate decision making. 




 

12 Landlords : Any landlord (including the council and housing 
associations) that owns flats in the tenement has as many votes as 
they have flats. Landlords should be invited to meetings just like any 
other owner.
